---layout: posttitle: "Pair Programming Success Story"categories: [pair programming, agile]---Georgina G: > We did pair programming, after key learnings on phase 1, results were great. We identified the largest roadblock for the team was sharing knowledge/experience. The solution was pair programming. We tried and it has been really successful.  Team is now self sufficient.> ##### BackgroundThe team( 6 people) was formed 18 months ago.  There were 4 scrum teams with a lot of previous development experience. > ##### Phase I - (First 3 months)> New team got training in a complex environment and multiple tools. They started coding with basic knowledge and not much experience in the area. > **Results**: team velocity was lower than other teams and had some quality issues. > ##### Phase II - Use pair programming > We mixed some experienced people with RCGs (recent college grads) and started pair programming (Two teams: One experience senior person, 3 more junior  ) > Team indicators went up: TPT, Quality, confidence. > Team ramped up in 2 months, even sometimes exceeding results than more experience teams.  4 out 6 people were now able to lead work by themselves, thus increasing the multiplier effect.  > ##### Challenges:> * Remote pair programming (We needed to get some F2F time for the first 3 weeks)> * Need to be aware - pair programming should not create dependencies. Establish boundaries  > ##### Benefits:> * 	Senior more experience people could coach more junior peers, increasing their leadership skills> * TTM (Time to Market) for all teams increased > * Share knowledge creates more throughput for the team, increasing the multiplier effect> * New teams can ramp up faster